Upgrade Postgres to v15.x (#3066)
raft-tech/TANF-app: docs/Technical-Documentation/cloud-foundry-db-upgrade.md

# Cloud Foundry, Cloud.gov AWS RDS Database Upgrade

## Process

> If you are performing this process for the staging or production, you need to ensure you are performing the changes through the [HHS](https://github.com/HHS/TANF-app) repo and not the [Raft](https://github.com/raft-tech/TANF-app) repo.

Reviewer: Why?

Author: Because the staging app is based off of the HHS repo not our Raft repo. In the instructions I say to push a manifest which copies the entire directory and sub-directories that the manifest is in. Since all our work is based off of develop the staging app might not be exactly up to date with develop and hasn't been tested/vetted by Alex.

<br/>

### 1. SSH into a backend app in your desired environment
```bash

> cf ssh tdp-backend-<ENV>

Reviewer: nit: Let's agree on terms, suggestion is to change env -> APP

```
<br/>

> ### 2. Create a backup of all the databases in the ENV's RDS instance

Reviewer: same here ENV -> APP

Note: you can get the required field values from `VCAP_SERVICES`.
```bash

> /home/vcap/deps/0/apt/usr/lib/postgresql/<CURRENT VERSION>/bin/pg_dump -h <HOST> -p <PORT> -d <DB_NAME> -U <DB_USER> -F c --no-acl --no-owner -f <FILE_NAME>.pg

Reviewer: Can't we use backup script?

Author: We cannot. The backup script does not work in it's current state. It does not use the correct DB name which causes the backups to not have the correct (or any) data. Until that bug is fixed, these instructions must be followed.

```
<br/>

### 3. Copy the backup(s) to your local machine
Note: This assumes you ran the backup command above in the home directory of the app. As an added bonus for later steps, you should execute this command from somewhere within `tdrs-backend` directory! Make sure not to commit the files/directories that are copied to your local directory.
```bash

> cf ssh tdp-backend-<ENV> -c 'tar cfz - ~/app/*.pg' | tar xfz - -C .

Reviewer: same here

```
<br/>

### 4. Verify backup file size(s) match the backup size(s) in the app
```bash
ls -lh <PWD>/home/vcap/app
```
As an added verification step, you should consider restoring the backups into a local server and verifying the contents with `psql` or `pgAdmin`.
<br/><br/>

### 5. Update the `version` key in the `json_params` item in the `database` resource in the `main.tf` file in the environment(s) you're upgrading with the new database server version
```yaml
json_params      = "{\"version\": \"<NEW VERSION>\"}"
```
<br/>

### 6. Update the `postgresql-client` version to the new version in `tdrs-backend/apt.yml`
```yaml
- postgresql-client-<NEW VERSION>
```
Note: if the underlying OS for CloudFoundry is no longer `cflinuxfs4` you may also need to update the repo we point to for the postgres client binaries.
<br/><br/>

### 7. Update the postgres container version in `tdrs-backend/docker-compose.yml`
```yaml
postgres:
image: postgres:<NEW VERSION>
```
<br/>

### 8. Update Terraform state to delete then re-create RDS instance

> Follow the instuctions in the `terraform/README.md` and procede from there. Modify the `main.tf` file in the `terraform/<ENV>` directory to inform TF of the changes. To delete the existing RDS instance you can simply comment out the whole database `resource` in the file (even though you made changes in the steps above). TF will see that the resource is no longer there, delete it, and appropriately update it's state. Then you simply re-comment the database `resource` back in with the changes you made in previous steps. TF will create the new RDS instance with your new updates, and also update the state in S3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow the instructions in the `terraform/README.md` and proceed from there. Modify the `main.tf` file in the `terraform/<ENV>` directory to inform TF of the changes. To delete the existing RDS instance you can simply comment out the whole database `resource` in the file (even though you made changes in the steps above). TF will see that the resource is no longer there, delete it, and appropriately update it's state. Then you simply re-comment the database `resource` back in with the changes you made in previous steps. TF will create the new RDS instance with your new updates, and also update the state in S3.
```
